README.md, before:

Yeoman generator for TypeScript and Backbone with AMD
=====================================================

A TypeScript & Backbone generator for Yeoman.

It consists of the following components:

* typescript (language)
* gulp (build tool)
* bower (package manager)
* backbone (MVC framework)
* requirejs (module loader)
* handlebars (templating)
* jasmine (unit testing)


Prerequisites
-------------

	npm install -g bower
	npm install -g bower-requirejs
	npm install -g gulp
	npm install -g tsd
	npm install -g typescript
	
Installation
------------

	npm install -g yo 
	npm install -g generator-typescript-backbone-amd
	
Usage
-----

You can scaffold your project using the `yo typescript-backbone-amd` command. It will ask a few questions using
`npm-init` then it creates a stub project, just an example for demonstrating the concepts.


Build & run
-----------

If you run the `gulp watch` command then gulp will compile the TypeScript sources, then it will listen for file-change
events and will incrementally recompile your code, which is effective during development. 

You will need a static HTTP server, for example you can use `node-static`. After installing it using `npm install -g node-static`,
you can run it with the `static -c 1 .` . If the server is up and running then point your browser to `http://localhost:8080/index.html` to
see the running application, and you can run the tests at `http://localhost:8080/test.html` . Changing any source files, test files
or template fragments under the `src` directory will be catched, compiled/copied by `gulp`, therefore all you need to do is refreshing
the browser after changing your file.

Whats inside?
-------------

The source files of your application are under the `src/` directory. You will modify never (or just rarely) modify the other files
which are auto-generated by a package manager or used for building the project. The `src/` directory has four subdirectories
(each containing a sample file):

* `main/model/` contains backbone models
* `main/collection/` contains backbone collections
* `main/view/` contains backbone views
* `main/template/` contains HTML template files and they use the Handlebars template engine
* `tests/` contain unit tests using the Jasmine BDD framework

There is also an `src/app.ts` source file, which is used to boot up the application. When you are running `index.html`
from the browser, after requirejs configuration, the `js/app.js` (compiled from `src/app.ts`) will be loaded and executed.

And the rest of the files in the root directory are the followings:

* `js/` contains mostly the javascript files compiled from the typescript sources. The `.ts` files are compiled one-by-one to javascript,
so the directory structure will be the same under `js/` as it is under `src/` (ie. `src/model/UserModel.ts` will be compiled
to `js/model/UserModel.js`).There is no single-file output javascript file (it would slow down compilation to recompile everything
after each file change). There are two exceptions: the `js/config.js` file contains the requirejs configuration and it is modified
by `bower` when you install a new depencency to configure the path (see the `.bowerrc` file for more details); the other is
the `js/test.js` file, which serves a similar purpose as `src/app.ts`, but it boots up jasmine and not the application.
So when you open `http://localhost:8080/test.html` then `js/test.js` will be used. Note: the default `.gitignore` file excludes
everything under the `js/` directory except the `js/config.js` and the `js/test.js` files, so these two are version-controlled.
* `index.html` and `test.html` are the two entry points, as already mentioned above. They are more or less empty, they just
load requirejs in a script tag. You may notice that these files use the same `data-main` attribute, and they also have a `data-bootstrap`
attribute which tells `js/config.js` if `js/app.js` or `js/test.js` should be used. This has been designed this way to avoid the need
for having two separate `config.js` (containing requirejs config) to be updated after `bower install`. 
* `tsd.json` and `typings/` are used by the `tsd` tool for tracking tsd dependencies. Using the default `tsd.json` your `.d.ts`
files will be placed to the `typings/vendor` dir which is on `.gitignore`.
* `bower.json` and `bower_components/` are used by the `bower` package manager (this is the default layout for `bower` too)
* `gulpfile.js` is the build script used by `gulp`
* `tsconfig.json` is a configuration file for the TypeScript compiler. It is used by the gulpfile, but advanced TypeScript
editors (like `atom-typescript`) can also parse it.


Generating further skeletons
----------------------------

The generator can also generate both Backbone model and Backbone view skeleton files.

The generator `yo typescript-backbone-amd:model` generates a model class. It asks for a model name, then it asks
for property names and their types in a loop. This is especially useful, since the generated code will add wrapper
TypeScript properties to the BackBone properties. Adding this boilerplate if you want to leverage the statically typed
nature of TypeScript. Backbone's property accessors ( `get()` and `set()` methods) are untyped, therefore if you want
typed model properties, it is a good practice to wrap them into typed properties.

There is a `yo typescript-backbone-amd:view` generator too, which simply generates a skeleton for a Backbone view, and
also optionally creates a template file.

Commit message:

added karma conf with docs

README.md, after:

Yeoman generator for TypeScript and Backbone with AMD
=====================================================

A TypeScript & Backbone generator for Yeoman.

It consists of the following components:

* typescript (language)
* gulp (build tool)
* bower (package manager)
* backbone (MVC framework)
* requirejs (module loader)
* handlebars (templating)
* jasmine (unit testing)


Prerequisites
-------------

	npm install -g bower
	npm install -g bower-requirejs
	npm install -g gulp
	npm install -g tsd
	npm install -g typescript
    npm install -g karma
	
Installation
------------

	npm install -g yo 
	npm install -g generator-typescript-backbone-amd
	
Usage
-----

You can scaffold your project using the `yo typescript-backbone-amd` command. It will ask a few questions using
`npm-init` then it creates a stub project, just an example for demonstrating the concepts.


Build & run
-----------

If you run the `gulp watch` command then gulp will compile the TypeScript sources, then it will listen for file-change
events and will incrementally recompile your code, which is effective during development. 

You will need a static HTTP server, for example you can use `node-static`. After installing it using `npm install -g node-static`,
you can run it with the `static -c 1 .` . If the server is up and running then point your browser to `http://localhost:8080/index.html` to
see the running application, and you can run the tests at `http://localhost:8080/test.html` . Changing any source files, test files
or template fragments under the `src` directory will be catched, compiled/copied by `gulp`, therefore all you need to do is refreshing
the browser after changing your file.

You can also run the tests from the command line using the `karma start` and `karma run` commands. By default the tests are 
executed whenever a `.js` file changes (`autoWatch` is set to `true` in `karma.conf.js`), so it is enough to invoke `karma start`,
when you start working. But you can turn off the automatic execution, and run the tests manually using `karma run`.

Whats inside?
-------------

The source files of your application are under the `src/` directory. You will modify never (or just rarely) modify the other files
which are auto-generated by a package manager or used for building the project. The `src/` directory has four subdirectories
(each containing a sample file):

* `main/model/` contains backbone models
* `main/collection/` contains backbone collections
* `main/view/` contains backbone views
* `main/template/` contains HTML template files and they use the Handlebars template engine
* `tests/` contain unit tests using the Jasmine BDD framework

There is also an `src/app.ts` source file, which is used to boot up the application. When you are running `index.html`
from the browser, after requirejs configuration, the `js/app.js` (compiled from `src/app.ts`) will be loaded and executed.

And the rest of the files in the root directory are the followings:

* `js/` contains mostly the javascript files compiled from the typescript sources. The `.ts` files are compiled one-by-one to javascript,
so the directory structure will be the same under `js/` as it is under `src/` (ie. `src/model/UserModel.ts` will be compiled
to `js/model/UserModel.js`).There is no single-file output javascript file (it would slow down compilation to recompile everything
after each file change). There are two exceptions: the `js/config.js` file contains the requirejs configuration and it is modified
by `bower` when you install a new depencency to configure the path (see the `.bowerrc` file for more details); the other is
the `js/test.js` file, which serves a similar purpose as `src/app.ts`, but it boots up jasmine and not the application.
So when you open `http://localhost:8080/test.html` then `js/test.js` will be used. Note: the default `.gitignore` file excludes
everything under the `js/` directory except the `js/config.js` and the `js/test.js` files, so these two are version-controlled.
* `index.html` and `test.html` are the two entry points, as already mentioned above. They are more or less empty, they just
load requirejs in a script tag. You may notice that these files use the same `data-main` attribute, and they also have a `data-bootstrap`
attribute which tells `js/config.js` if `js/app.js` or `js/test.js` should be used. This has been designed this way to avoid the need
for having two separate `config.js` (containing requirejs config) to be updated after `bower install`. 
* `tsd.json` and `typings/` are used by the `tsd` tool for tracking tsd dependencies. Using the default `tsd.json` your `.d.ts`
files will be placed to the `typings/vendor` dir which is on `.gitignore`.
* `bower.json` and `bower_components/` are used by the `bower` package manager (this is the default layout for `bower` too)
* `gulpfile.js` is the build script used by `gulp`
* `tsconfig.json` is a configuration file for the TypeScript compiler. It is used by the gulpfile, but advanced TypeScript
editors (like `atom-typescript`) can also parse it.


Generating further skeletons
----------------------------

The generator can also generate both Backbone model and Backbone view skeleton files.

The generator `yo typescript-backbone-amd:model` generates a model class. It asks for a model name, then it asks
for property names and their types in a loop. This is especially useful, since the generated code will add wrapper
TypeScript properties to the BackBone properties. Adding this boilerplate if you want to leverage the statically typed
nature of TypeScript. Backbone's property accessors ( `get()` and `set()` methods) are untyped, therefore if you want
typed model properties, it is a good practice to wrap them into typed properties.

There is a `yo typescript-backbone-amd:view` generator too, which simply generates a skeleton for a Backbone view, and
also optionally creates a template file.
